---
layout: post
tags: spell necromancy
title: Seance - REWORK
---
<b>D:</b> 1 hour or until dismissed by the spirit <b>T:</b> Spirit of dead creature <b>R:</b> n/a

Call upon the spirit of a dead creature of [dice]*2 HD or less to be summoned to you in order to ask [dice] questions. You must roll a reaction roll to see the initial attitude of the spirit towards the group. Spirits don't tend to enjoy being awoken from their slumber. You have a +1 cumulative bonus if:
*  You have an item that belongs to them.
*  You have an item they want/wanted when they were alive.
*  You prepared a room specifically for this purpose (to set the mood).

If you use the Keys & Locks system, use it here. The spirit is in no way forced to answer truthfully. It only has the memories and personality it once had when it was alive, and can only speak the languages it knew when alive (old spirits only speak old languages). If the spirit hates you, it'll wreck havoc in the general vicinity and then dismiss itself.

If there's a mishap, the caster suffers from the <i>Possession curse</i>.

<details markdown="1">
<summary><i>Possession curse</i></summary>
D:</b> permanent (1 week ; 1 day if 6+ HD)

<b>Side effects:</b>
1.  Personality becomes skewed in favor of the spirits' at times of stress.
2.  When sleeping, 1-in-6 chance to be controlled by the spirit.
3.  When sleeping, 3-in-6 chance to be controlled by the spirit.
4.  Character is controlled by the spirit, and becomes an GM-controlled NPC.
</details>
